# Odin-Rock-Paper-Scissors
Creating a rock paper scissor game using Javascript.

Started with an empty HTML file and linked Javascript.js to it

Wrote my code with JS having 4 different functions.

Namely playGame, playRound, getHumanChoice, getComputerChoice.

getComputerChoice: runs on math.random function which selects a number from 0(inclusive)-1(exclusive) which I then amplified to go till 10(exclusive)
if the number generated by the function is in the range of 0-3 and then 3-6 and 6-10 it outputs 'rock' 'paper' and 'scissors' respectively and returns it.


getHumanChoice: prompts human to enter either rock paper or scissors which gets turned into lowercase so as to make the input case insensitive and if the input is invalid it prompts again.

in playRound: the human choice and the computer choice are the parameters needed to run the function and depending on that it outputs a result, either win loss or a tie.and keeps check of the score(need to work on this a bit more).

in playGame: function the playRound function and as well as the other 2 functions are called for 5 times so that the game is played for a total of 5 times and the scores are compared. A for loop is used to iterate.

Concepts Practiced

This project practices several core JavaScript concepts:

Functions

Conditional statements

Loops

User input (prompt)

Random number generation

Variables and state management

Future Improvements

Add a graphical UI instead of prompt/console

Replace prompt() with HTML buttons

Display scores on the webpage

Add animations and sound effects

Improve input validation

Author

Aman Shivaprasad Naik

